Patrick Grenning
SENiOR SOFTWARE ENGiNEER

Chicago, IL
ć pgrennin@gmail.com |

u patrickgrenning.com | ^ github.com/pgrennin |

] linkedin.com/in/patrickgrenning |

_ @pgrenn

Summary
Senior Software Engineer with over eight years of experience in the FinTech and payments industry. Strong contributor to both small and large
teams in the development of scalable and high‑performing web applications. Proficient as a Full Stack Engineer, well‑versed in both front‑end
and back‑end technologies.

Work Experience
Fiserv

Chicago, IL

SENiOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT ENGiNEER

Mar. 2021 ‑ Present

• Implemented payment methods and features for CommerceHub, Fiserv’s global omnichannel payments platform, utilizing the Java/Spring
stack.
• Developed a settlement service for CommerceHub, enabling merchants to settle funds from their customers’ payments, capable of processing
millions of transactions per day.
SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT ENGiNEER

Jul. 2019 ‑ Mar. 2021

• Designed and developed Apple Pay on the Web as a payment method for IPG Connect, Fiserv’s hosted payment page, utilizing JavaScript/HTML
for the front‑end and Java/Spring for the back‑end.
• Developed software to integrate TeleCheck (a check acceptance service) as a payment method into Fiserv’s payment gateway.
First Data (acquired by Fiserv)
Chicago, IL
SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT ENGiNEER

Mar. 2018 ‑ Jul. 2019

• Developed features and capabilities for digital wallet payment transactions made with Apple Pay, Google Pay, and Samsung Pay through First
Data’s payment gateway, utilizing both REST API and SOAP API.
• Developed software responsible for transmitting payment data from the payment gateway to front‑end processors, card networks, and banks.
This involved adhering to the ISO8583 protocol to appropriately prepare and package data elements for processor transmission.

Bluepay (merged with Clover)
SOFTWARE ENGiNEER

Chicago, IL
Apr. 2015 ‑ Mar. 2018

• Developed and maintained software for Bluepay’s KPI and reporting system, which produced data analytics for over 140,000 merchants monthly
and delivered 2,000+ reports each month, using SQL and Ruby.
• Built Ruby‑based ETL solutions for KPIs extracting data from 30+ data sources.
• Converted the legacy KPI Reporting database from MS SQL Server to PostgreSQL, refactoring over 20,500 lines of SQL code.
• Created a Ruby on Rails application from scratch, providing report generation and configuration support for partners and sales teams. This
application was utilized by operations and finance teams to manage payments of residuals and commissions.

Hydro Flow Products, Inc
PRODUCT MANAGER

Lake Zurich, IL
Apr. 2010 ‑ Jul. 2014

• Led the product development of Fire Pump Tester Software, a SaaS solution designed for collecting, storing, and analyzing flow test data.
• Managed the redesign of the company’s e‑commerce website, resulting in a 25% increase in the average number of unique visitors per month
and a 9% revenue growth over the following year.

Skills
Programming
Back‑end
Front‑end
DevOps

Ruby, Java, Python, JavaScript
Redis, PostgresSQL, Oracle, Spring Boot
Ruby on Rails, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS, JQuery
Docker, Amazon Web Services, Cloud Foundry

Education
Dev Bootcamp
SOFTWARE ENGiNEERiNG PROGRAM

Chicago, IL
Aug. 2014 ‑ Dec. 2014

• Completed 19‑week, onsite program focused on algorithm design, web development, source control, database design, test‑driven develop‑
ment, and maintaining a production environment.

Purdue University
B.S. iN ECONOMiCS

West Lafayette, IN
2005 ‑ 2009

• Extracurricular: Phi Kappa Sigma Fraternity, Alpha Phi Omega Service Fraternity, Study Abroad Program in Dublin, Ireland.
1



Projects
OptionCharts.io
CREATOR

Dec. 2021 ‑ Present

• Created OptionCharts.io, a web application for visualizing options data. Developed using Ruby on Rails, a Python backend service, Redis, and
a PostgreSQL database.
• OptionCharts.io has 9,100+ Monthly Active Users (MAU) users and has been featured on ProductHunt.
• Website: https://optioncharts.io

AI Question & Answer Web Template
CREATOR

Jan. 2023 ‑ Feb. 2023

• Built an open‑source Python Flask web app template for AI Question and Answering on source documents, utilizing LangChain and the OpenAI
API.
• Website: https://github.com/pgrennin/ai_question_answer_web_template

2

